---
title: "Talk: 3D reconstruction of hierarchical nanoporous structures using multi-modal deep learning models trained on synthetic multi-voltage FIB tomography data"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
permalink: /talks/3D-reconstruction-of-hierarchical-nanoporous-structures-using-multi-modal-deep-learning-models-trained-on-synthetic-multi-voltage-FIB-tomography-data
venue: "Microscopy Conference (MC2023)"
date: 2023-02-28
location: "Darmstadt, Germany"
---

3D reconstruction of hierarchical nanoporous structures requires high-resolution imaging data in the  range  of  a  few  nanometers.  Focused  ion  beam  (FIB)  tomography  can  be  combined  with  a scanning electron microscope (SEM) to collect high-resolution images of nanostructures in the range of 1 nm in SEM plane and 10 nm in the out of plane direction. FIB tomography collects data layer-wise, where a FIB milling process follows each imaging process by an SEM. However, these consecutive series of cross-sectional images have one or more artefacts, such as the “shine-through effect”. Due to this effect, some structures become visible from posterior regions of the currently milled plane, and it is impossible to map pixel intensities with the material phase uniquely. Therefore, such images cannot be segmented accurately using conventional methods like  thresholding  or  the  k-means  algorithm.  Earlier,  we  presented  a  machine  learning-based approach to reconstruct hierarchical nanoporous materials accurately. We also demonstrated a method  to  generate  synthetic  FIB-SEM  images  of  any  complex  nanoporous  structures  to overcome  the  lack  of  training  data.  In  this  study,  we  present  two  ways  to  improve  3D reconstruction results. The first approach is to use multi-modal machine learning method to take advantage of more information from the same region. In this case, these multi-modal images are generated  by  changing  the  electron  voltage  of  the  beam  and  capturing  images  of  the  same regions simultaneously. The second approach is to make synthetic FIB-SEM data more similar to the   real   electron   microscopy   images   using   machine   learning-based   domain   adaptation techniques. We show that using these approaches, our segmentation methods can suppress the “shine-through effect” and improve upon the methods presented in our previous research.
